---
title: Consider Corporate Chaplaincy Kit
price: 45.00
gumroad: aJPd
menu: store
image: http://placekitten.com/g/200/300
description: The Consider Corporate Chaplaincy Kit includes an ebook, starter marketing materials, and free 30-minute phone consultation that will help you discern whether corporate chaplaincy is right for you, show you what to expect in your new profession, and help you get your individual Chaplain Assistance Program up and running.
learn-more: /get-started/consider-corporate-chaplaincy/
---

## Prospective Chaplain Package ($45.00) Includes:

1.  [Chaplain FAQ](index.html#p432 "Chaplain FAQ")
**Chaplain FAQ**

This document contains answers to seventeen Frequently Asked Questions about corporate chaplains, what corporate chaplaincy is, and how corporate chaplaincy works in the workplace (over six pages—3011 words). Some of the questions addressed in this document include:

*   Why should a business have a corporate chaplaincy program?
*   Why is a Chaplain Assistance Program important for employers as well as their employees?
*   Do chaplains push religion or focus primarily on the religious needs of the employees?
*   Does the chaplain provide long-term counseling services?
*   What type of training do chaplains have, and what is the commitment to on-going continuing education?

2.  [Corporate Chaplain Job Description](index.html#p434 "Corporate Chaplain Job Description")
**Corporate Chaplain Job Description**

This document details the: Why? Who? What? When? Where? and How? of what a corporate chaplain is and does, as well as why these characteristics are important for those serving as corporate chaplains (over a page—466 words).

_&#8220;A Corporate Chaplain is: called&#8230; aptly gifted&#8230; an encourager&#8230; a resource&#8230; respectful of boundaries&#8230; experienced&#8230; discerning&#8230;&#8221;_


3.  [A Day in the Life of a Corporate Chaplain](index.html#p436 "A Day in the Life of a Corporate Chaplain")
**A Day in the Life of a Corporate Chaplain**

This document offers a taste of what a corporate chaplain does to prepare and serve on a daily basis (one and a half pages—807 words).

_&#8220;Consistency and Variety

Some corporate chaplains work part-time and serve onsite a few hours each week; others work fulltime and visit one or more sites every day, Monday through Friday. While a given day in the life of one corporate chaplain will share some similar characteristics that will be consistent with a given day in the life of another, it is difficult to label any day as: typical.&#8221;_


4.  [Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Local Church Pastor](index.html#p438 "Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Local Church Pastor")
**Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Local Church Pastor**

This document shares the experiences and insights of a local church pastor who is currently serving part-time as a workplace chaplain (two pages—989 words).

_&#8220;As the sole pastor of a small church, Mickey recognizes that the amount of time that can be devoted to ministry is endless; you can always do more, pray more, and study more. While he didn&#8217;t feel that he had the time to add anything else to his busy schedule, he made time. Two years ago, when Mickey was presented with the opportunity to work as a part-time chaplain, he saw it as an extension of his ministry—and an opportunity to help him support his family of five. &#8230; While the employees benefit from Mickey&#8217;s consistency, encouragement, and desire to listen, he has found that he benefits from his time with them as well. &#8230;&#8221; _


5.  [Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Social Worker](index.html#p440 "Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Social Worker")
**Profile: Workplace Chaplain and Social Worker**

This document shares the experiences and insights of a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) who is currently serving part-time as a workplace chaplain (over two pages—1141 words).

_&#8220;Long before beginning her work as a chaplain, Sue made the decision to organize her fulltime work responsibilities so that they could be completed in four days each week. &#8230; When the opportunity arose to spend a few hours each Friday serving as a chaplain, Sue discovered that it was an excellent fit for her interests and her strengths. By dedicating just twelve to fifteen hours each month to chaplaincy, Sue has found a way to serve her community, supplement her income, and still enjoy her Fridays. &#8230;&#8221;_


6.  [Profile: Workplace Chaplain and retired EAP Provider](index.html#p442 "Profile: Workplace Chaplain and retired EAP Provider")
**Profile: Workplace Chaplain and retired EAP Provider**

This document shares the experiences and insights of a retired EAP provider who is currently serving part-time as a workplace chaplain (over two pages—1195 words).

_&#8220;When Shell joined the State Bar of Wisconsin as an employee, it didn&#8217;t take her long to see the many needs of the lawyers with whom she worked. &#8230; The American Bar Association had a rudimentary assistance program for lawyers at that time, and Shell was able to formally begin her service as an EAP (Employee Assistance Program) provider. &#8230; After two years of retirement—which she considers a much-needed extended vacation—Shell saw an article in the paper about a local corporate chaplaincy provider. &#8230; Shell was hired. &#8230;&#8221;_


7.  [Chaplain Services Information Sheet](index.html#p444 "Chaplain Services Information Sheet")
**Chaplain Services Information Sheet**

This modifiable template offers you a complete document that outlines the services offered by a traditional Chaplain Assistance Program. You are welcome to adapt this document to meet your needs and use it when explaining to potential client companies what services you have to offer as a chaplain (one and a half pages—521 words).

_&#8220;[chaplaincy organization] will offer [client organization]&#8216;s employees and their family/household members a voluntary Chaplain Assistance Program (CAP) that will be available to all [client organization] employees and their immediate family/household members and will be neutral from [client organization] operations. &#8230; The services offered through the [client organization] Chaplain Assistance Program include&#8230;&#8221;_


8.  [Chaplaincy Organization Profiles](index.html#p446 "Chaplaincy Organization Profiles")
**Chaplaincy Organization Profiles**

This resource document offers brief profiles and contact information for twenty organizations offering regional and/ or national corporate chaplaincy services throughout the US and Canada (over six pages—1763 words).

_From Cardone Industries, a &#8220;global hard parts specialist for new and remanufactured automotive parts&#8221; which offers an in-house chaplaincy service &#8220;with nine fulltime chaplains to provide chaplaincy care for all Cardone Industries employees in Europe; Mexico; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,&#8221; and Corporate Chaplains of America, &#8220;a 501 (c) 3 non-profit corporation employing over 100 fulltime chaplains throughout the United States,&#8221; to Industrial and Commercial Ministries, &#8220;a not-for-profit organization staffed by volunteer chaplains&#8221; and Capital Chaplains LLC, &#8220;a privately owned and operated, regionally focused chaplaincy provider located in Middleton, Wisconsin &#8230; currently serving 450 employees.&#8221;_
