---
title: Careers
permalink: info/what-is-cc-why-should-i-care/consider-a-career-in-corporate-chaplaincy/
---
				<h2>Consider a career in corporate chaplaincy</h2>
<p>The road that eventually leads to a career in corporate chaplaincy is often one that has journeyed through a life of service to others. For some, their careers as social workers, counselors, or pastors have always been about providing a listening ear and caring for those they serve. Others have volunteered with care ministries through their churches while spending their professional lives working in an office and observing the needs that exist in the corporate world. Still others have served as EAP (Employee Assistance Program) providers, but they have longed to help employees in a more personal, more proactive way. Through a mix of backgrounds and life experiences, people throughout the United States (and around the world) are seeing the need, coming together, and finding a way to support workers from all walks of life.</p>
<p>Some have already decided to make caring a career by serving as a corporate chaplain, but it will take more people becoming aware of this growing business opportunity, and more people choosing corporate chaplaincy as a career, if the demand is to be met.</p>
<h2>Why a career in corporate chaplaincy</h2>
<p>The need is evident. The current economic situation is taking its toll on more than just people&#8217;s pocketbooks. The additional emotional stress is hitting families, and many Americans are taking this stress to work with them each day. Even when the economy is strong, the fast pace, pressures, and distractions of everyday life create the reality that some employees are barely able to hang on. Many people today have run out of margin in their lives and do not have anyone to turn to during the challenging times of life. Difficulties and challenges that employees face outside of the workplace come to work with them and can result in low productivity, low morale, and high absenteeism.</p>
<p>As a corporate chaplain, you can help employees connect with the resources they need in order to reduce stress; as a result, a more pleasant workplace environment is fostered. As a chaplain, you are available to assure that employees do not have to feel alone when life gets overwhelming; you will also be available to assure that managers are not alone when trying to deal with the complex personal situations that employees bring to work. As you build relationships with employees, you provide support and encouragement when things are going well; you are also available to facilitate creative problem solving when employees are struggling with personal issues.</p>
<p>As you find joy in knowing that you are helping people in times of need, you will be able to see the trust grow in the relationships you develop with those you serve. Organizations offering Chaplain Assistance Programs (CAPs) report much higher usage rates than traditional Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs), simply because of the relational nature of corporate chaplaincy.</p>
<p>As you actively care for the employees and help them to find the services they need, you will find that you are not only helping the employee; you will be helping business owners and managers, as well. Most employers recognize that absenteeism and a high turnover rate create a significant cost to the organization, and they may be a symptom of the fact that their employees have needs that are not being met.</p>
<h2>Make Money Doing<strong> What You Love</strong></h2>
<p>As long as there are people in the workplace, there will be a need for corporate chaplains. Not only do chaplains build relationships and promote goodwill, chaplains find joy each day as they provide resources and offer hope to employees. As a chaplain, you will have the opportunity to build community while advancing the fundamental human need for relationships in the marketplace, all while enjoying flexible hours and a regular, predictable income.</p>
<p>Maybe you only have a few hours to dedicate to chaplaincy on a weekly basis, or maybe you are able to dedicate one full day each week. Maybe you would like to make chaplaincy a full-time career. You might even be thinking that you want to start a chaplaincy organization of your own because you see the need and no one to fill it in your area.</p>
<p>Whatever your situation, if you have been called to chaplaincy, there is a place for you.</p>
<p>If you only have a few hours to offer each week, you may be able to find an established chaplaincy organization for which you could work part-time. More information about the lives and backgrounds of part-time chaplains is available by reading our Chaplain Profiles. You can also view <a title="A Day in the Life of a Corporate Chaplain" href="../../../%3Fp=436.html">&#8220;A Day in the Life of a Corporate Chaplain&#8221;</a> for more information about what a typical day might entail. To view these articles and others, please visit our <a title="Document Highlights" href="http://www.corpchaps.com/packages-2/sample-documents/">&#8220;Highlights&#8221; </a>page for more information.</p>
<p>If there is not currently an independent chaplaincy organization based in your community, you may be able to find a national or regional organization that is willing to let you work part-time while you see if chaplaincy is right for you. Or, if you have a head for business and a heart for people, consider starting your own chaplaincy organization to serve the businesses in your community. For more information about what it&#8217;s like to establish a chaplaincy organization, read &#8220;<a title="A Week In The Life of A Corporate Chaplaincy Business Owner" href="../../../%3Fp=458.html">A Week in the Life of a Corporate Chaplaincy Business Owner</a>&#8221; and the <a title="Case Study: Capital Chaplains" href="../../../%3Fp=454.html">Case Study of Capital Chaplain</a>s, serving Madison, Wisconsin, and surrounding areas. Please visit our <a title="Document Highlights" href="http://www.corpchaps.com/packages-2/sample-documents/">&#8220;Highlights&#8221;</a> page for additional information about viewing these articles and others.</p>
<p>Whatever route you decide is best, you don&#8217;t have to do this alone. Corporate Chaplaincy Consulting exists to provide you with<a title="Packages" href="http://www.corpchaps.com/packages-2/"> resources and support</a> as you begin your own chaplaincy journey.</p>
<p><strong>Corporate Chaplaincy Consulting</strong><br />
<em>Mentoring and Equipping Emerging Workplace Chaplains</em></p>
